ARROW-7580: [Website] 0.16 release post (#41)
apache/arrow-site: _posts/2020-01-25-0.16.0-release.md

(ARROW-7420).

## C# Notes

## Java notes

## Python notes

Arrow is now tested against Python 3.8 as well.

Python now has bindings for the datasets API (ARROW-6341) as well as the S3
(ARROW-6655) and HDFS (ARROW-7310) filesystem implementations.

The Duration (ARROW-5855) and Fixed Size List (ARROW-7261) types are exposed
in Python.

Sparse tensors can be converted to dense tensors (ARROW-6624).  They are
also interoperable with the `pydata/sparse` and `scipy.sparse` libraries
(ARROW-4223, ARROW-4224).

A memory leak when converting Arrow data to Pandas "object" data has been
fixed (ARROW-6874).

Pandas extension arrays now are able to roundtrip through Arrow conversion
(ARROW-2428).

We now build manylinux2014 wheels for Python 3 (ARROW-7344).

## Ruby and C GLib notes

## Rust notes

Support for Arrow data types has been improved, with the following array types now supported (ARROW-3690):

* Fixed Size List and Fixed Size Binary
* Adding a String Array for utf-8 strings, and keeping the Binary Array for general binary data
* Duration and interval arrays.

IPC readers for files and streams have been implemented (ARROW-5180).

### Rust: DataFusion

> Query execution has been reimplemented with an extensible physical query plan. This allows other projec ts to add other plans, such as for distributed computing or for specific database servers (ARROW-5227).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Query execution has been reimplemented with an extensible physical query plan. This allows other projects to add other plans, such as for distributed computing or for specific database servers (ARROW-5227).
```

These are evaluated with predicate pushdown, and for Parquet, evaluation is pushed down to row groups.

### C++: Filesystem layer

An HDFS implementation of the FileSystem class is available (ARROW-6720). We
plan to deprecate the prior bespoke C++ HDFS class in favor of the standardized
filesystem API.

The filesystem APIs now use `Result<T>` when returning both a Status
and result value, rather than taking a pointer-out function parameter
(ARROW-7161).

### C++: IPC

The Arrow IPC reader is being fuzzed continuously by the [OSS-Fuzz][6]
infrastructure, to detect undesirable behavior on invalid or malicious input.
Several issues have already been found and fixed.

### C++: Parquet

[Modular encryption][10] is now supported (PARQUET-1300).

A performance regression when reading a file with a large number of columns
has been fixed (ARROW-6876, ARROW-7059), as well as several bugs (PARQUET-1766, ARROW-6895).

### C++: Tensors

CSC sparse matrices are supported (ARROW-4225).

The Tensor APIs now use `Result<T>` when returning both a Status
and result value, rather than taking a pointer-out function parameter
(ARROW-7420).

## C# Notes

## Java notes

## Python notes

> 

Reviewer 2: Should we mention here that 0.16 is the last release to support Python 2.7 ?

Reviewer 3: yes

### C++: Datasets

Added support for Arrow IPC files via `IPCFileFormat` (ARROW-7415), and the
`IN` and `IS_VALID` filter operators (ARROW-7185).

Classes were renamed to avoid the repeated `Data` prefix. The core classes are
now `Dataset`, `Source`, `Fragment`, and `Partitioning` (ARROW-7498). The dataset
APIs now use `Result<T>` when returning both a Status and result value, rather
than taking a pointer-out function parameter (ARROW-7148).

A discovery facility was added to create a `Dataset` and/or `Source` via the
`DatasetFactory` and `SourceFactory` interfaces. Notably `FileSystemSourceFactory`

> can crawl directories to find the candidates files (`Fragment`) supporting by a

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
can crawl directories to find the candidates files (`FileFragment`s) supported by a
```

given `FileFormat`. The factories will also try to unify schemas, transparently
supporting missing/added columns to the final unified schema. (ARROW-6614,
ARROW-7061, ARROW-843, ARROW-7380)

A partitioning facility was added to support partition pruning with predicate
pushdown (ARROW-6494). The partitioning extracts partition from the `Fragment`'s
path, e.g. `/data/year=2015/month=04/day=29` would extract the `year`, `month`

> and `day` partitions. Partitions can injected in the schema and the RecordBatch

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
and `day` partitions. Partitions fields can injected into the schema and into the RecordBatch
```

> as materialized columns (ARROW-6965). Add a `PartitioningFactory` discovery

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
as materialized columns (ARROW-6965). There is now a `PartitioningFactory` discovery
```

facility such that types of the `Partitioning`'s schema are inferred if possible.

The `ParquetFileFormat` transparently supports predicate pushdown by ignoring

> RowGroups based on their statistic (ARROW-6952). It also supports column

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
RowGroups based on their statistics (ARROW-6952). It also supports column
```
